#summary Instructions on setting up the BennuGD Packager for Mac
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

The BennuGD Packager is a Python+Qt4 application that packages your BennuGD/Android games in an APK and, optionally, installs them to your device or an emulator.
In order to get it working you need to perform a few extra steps that are detailed below.
The program has been tested to work on OSX Mountain Lion (10.8) but should run in other systems, too.


= Prerequisites =

First of all, you need to install Python. OS X comes with Python 2.7.2 pre-installed but that doesn't seem to work with PyQtX (this note includes Mountain Lion).
  * *Disable Gatekeeper*
  GateKeeper is a new measure in OSX Mountain Lion (10.8) which restricts which software you can use and which one you cannot. By default it won't let you use the BennuGD Packager as it's not a signed binary.
  Even if there appear to be measures to temporarily disable it for specific apps, just [http://blog.brettalton.com/2012/08/19/disable-gatekeeper-in-mac-os-x-10-8-mountain-lion/ disable it completely]. It's best for your freedom.
  * *Python 2.7.3*
  The Python version bundled with OSX just won't work. Get the official version from [http://python.org/download/releases/2.7.3/ here] and install it. It won't conflict with your system's Python implementation, so don't worry.
  * *PyQtX*
  Get it from [http://sourceforge.net/projects/pyqtx/files/Complete/PyQtX%2B_py273_q482_pyqt494.pkg.mpkg.zip/download here]. It'll check that you install the above package, first.
  * *Android SDK*
  Get it from [http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html here] and uncompress it to some place you like.
  If it's the first time you launch a Java app in OSX, the system might ask you to confirm that you want to download the Java runtime. Please do so.

The program also bundles a binary copy of ANT, but you won't [hopefully] notice.

= Using the program =

With this you should have everything needed to use the packager. Go to the downloads section and get the latest DMG; Uncompress and run the app from there.