#summary Info on how to compile bennugd-monolithic on the Wii yourself.
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation,Phase-Support

= Introduction =

This document describes how to compile bennugd-monolithic for the Wii on your system. The main system used for development is Linux x86, but it should work on any Devkitpro system.

= Details =

  * In order to install the SDK, follow the instructions to install devkitpro from [http://devkitpro.org/wiki/Getting_Started/devkitPPC here].
  * Download the latest copy of my DevkitPPC directory available [http://code.google.com/p/bennugd-monolithic/downloads/list here] -it can be used in win32, linux or OS X- and uncompress it to (following the example in the Getting Started page) _/opt/devkitpro/_ so that there you'll have threee folders: _devklitPPC_, _libogc_ & _portlibs_.
  * Now, set the _DEVKITPRO_ & _DEVKITPPC_ environment vars as described in the Devkitpro "Getting Started" page.
  * Get the latest bennugd-monolithic code as described [http://code.google.com/p/bennugd-monolithic/source/checkout here].
  * Last, in your favorite console, and from the _bennugd-monolithic-read-only/core_ directory type make. That's it! After that, your binaries will be in _core/bgdc/bgdc.elf_ & _core/bgdi/bgdi.elf_.
  * Should you want to create a monolithic build for Linux (which should work just as fine as the normal BennuGD build, as you won't experience any endianess issues), type _make linux_ instead of _make_.

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages